docs(examples): frame classification with claude (#22)
encord-team/encord-agents: docs/editor_agents/examples/index.md

## GCP Examples

### Nested frame classification with Claude 3.5 Sonnet

The goals of this example is to:

1. Obtain an editor agent that can automatically fill in frame-level classifications.

> 2. Show how you can use both the [`OntologyDataModel`](../../reference/core.md#encord_agents.core.ontology.OntologyDataModel) on classification.

Author: The idea is demonstrating that you can do:
- ontology => json schema
- json object => object instance
via that model

Once you're ready to deploy your agent, you can go to [the deployment documentation](../gcp.md#deployment) to learn more.

## FastAPI Examples

### Nested frame classification with Claude 3.5 Sonnet

The goals of this example is to:

1. Obtain an editor agent that can automatically fill in frame-level classifications.
2. Show how you can use both the [`OntologyDataModel`](../../reference/core.md#encord_agents.core.ontology.OntologyDataModel) on classifications.
3. Demonstrate how to build a FastAPI-based agent that can be self-hosted.

**Setup**

To get setup, you need to:

- Create a virtual python environment
- Install necessary dependencies
- Get an [Anthropic API key](https://www.anthropic.com/api){ target="_blank", rel="noopener noreferrer" }
- Setup Encord [authentication](../../authentication.md)

> First, create the virtual environment. Before you do the following actions, make sure you have authentication with Anthropic and Encord sorted (see links in list above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create the virtual environment. Before proceeding, ensure you can authenticate with Anthropic and with Encord (see links in list above).
```

```shell
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install "fastapi[standard]" encord-agents anthropic
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="<your_api_key>"
export ENCORD_SSH_KEY_FILE="/path/to/your/private/key"
```

**Project setup**

> We're using a project with the following ontology (same as in the GCP example):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using a Project with the following Ontology (same as in the GCP example):
```

![Ontology](../../assets/examples/editor_agents/gcp/ontology_preview_llm_frame_classification.png){width=300}

??? "See the ontology JSON"
    [Same JSON as in GCP Frame Classification example]

> The goal is to be able to trigger an agent that takes a labeling task from Figure A to Figure B, below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to trigger an agent that takes a labeling task from Figure A to Figure B, below:
```

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; gap: 1em;">
    <figure style="text-align: center; flex: 1; margin: 1em 0;">
      <img src="../../assets/examples/editor_agents/gcp/frame_classification_generic.png" width="100%"/>
      <strong>Figure A:</strong> no classification labels.
    </figure>
    <figure style="text-align: center; flex: 1; margin: 1em 0;">
      <img src="../../assets/examples/editor_agents/gcp/frame_classification_filled.png" width="100%"/>
      <strong>Figure B:</strong> Multiple nested labels coming from an LLM.
    </figure>
</div>

**The FastAPI agent**

??? "The full code for `main.py`"
    <!--codeinclude-->
    [main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/frame_classification.py) linenums:1
    <!--/codeinclude-->

> Let's go through the code section by section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us go through the code section by section.
```

First, we import dependencies and setup the FastAPI app with CORS middleware:

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/frame_classification.py) lines:1-22
<!--/codeinclude-->

The CORS middleware is crucial as it allows the Encord platform to make requests to your API.

> Next, we setup the project and create a data model based on the ontology:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we set up the Project and create a data model based on the Ontology:
```

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/frame_classification.py) lines:24-28
<!--/codeinclude-->

> We create the system prompt that will tell Claude how to structure its response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We create the system prompt that tells Claude how to structure its response:
```

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/frame_classification.py) lines:30-41
<!--/codeinclude-->

> Finally, we define the endpoint that will handle the classification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we define the endpoint to handle the classification:
```

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/frame_classification.py) lines:44-71
<!--/codeinclude-->

The endpoint:

1. Receives frame data via FastAPI's Form dependency
2. Gets the label row and frame content via Encord Agents' dependencies
3. Creates a Frame object with the content
4. Queries Claude with the frame image
5. Parses Claude's response into classification instances
6. Adds the classifications to the label row and saves it

> **Testing the agent**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Testing the Agent**
```

> **Step 1: run the FastAPI server**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**STEP 1: Run the FastAPI Server**  
```

With the agent laid down, we can run it and test it. 
In your current terminal, run:

```shell
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8080
```

> This will run the FastAPI server in development mode with auto-reload enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This runs the FastAPI server in development mode with auto-reload enabled.
```

> **Step 2: open a frame in the editor**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**STEP 2: Open a Frame in the Editor**
```

> Open your project within [the Encord platform](https://app.encord.com/projects){ target="_blank", rel="noopener noreferrer" } in your browser and navigate to a frame you want to classify. Copy the URL from your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your Project within [the Encord platform](https://app.encord.com/projects){ target="_blank", rel="noopener noreferrer" } in your browser and navigate to a frame you want to classify. Copy the URL from your browser.
```

!!! hint

>     The url should have roughly this format: `"https://app.encord.com/label_editor/{project_hash}/{data_hash}/{frame}"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The url should have the following format: `"https://app.encord.com/label_editor/{project_hash}/{data_hash}/{frame}"`.
```

> **Step 3: trigger the agent**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**STEP 3: Trigger the Agent**
```

In another shell operating from the same working directory, source your virtual environment and test the agent:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate
encord-agents test local frame_classification '<your_url>'
```

> If the test is successful, you should be able to refresh your browser and see the classifications that Claude generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the test is successful, you are be able to refresh your browser and see the classifications that Claude generated.
```

### Nested object classification with Claude 3.5 Sonnet

The goals of this example is to:

> 1. Obtain an editor agent that can convert generic object annotations (class-less coordinates) into class specific annotations with nested attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an editor agent that can convert generic object annotations (class-less coordinates) into class specific annotations with nested attributes in the Label Editor.
```

> 2. Show how you can use both the [`OntologyDataModel`](../../reference/core.md#encord_agents.core.ontology.OntologyDataModel) and the [`dep_object_crops`](../../reference/editor_agents.md#encord_agents.fastapi.dependencies.dep_object_crops) dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Show how you can use both the [`OntologyDataModel`](../../reference/core.md#encord_agents.core.ontology.OntologyDataModel) and the [`dep_object_crops`](../../reference/editor_agents.md#encord_agents.fastapi.dependencies.dep_object_crops) dependencies.
```

3. Demonstrate a more complex FastAPI endpoint handling object classification.

**Setup**

> The setup is identical to the frame classification example above. You'll need the same environment and dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup is identical to the frame classification example above. You need the same environment and dependencies.
```

**Project setup**

> We're using a project with the following ontology (same as in the GCP example):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using a Project with the following Ontology (same as in the GCP example):
```

![Ontology](../../assets/examples/editor_agents/gcp/ontology_preview_llm_classification.png){width=300}

??? "See the ontology JSON"
    [Same JSON as in GCP Object Classification example]

> The goal is to be able to trigger an agent that takes a labeling task from Figure A to Figure B, below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to trigger an agent that takes a labeling task from Figure A to Figure B, below:
```

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; gap: 1em;">
    <figure style="text-align: center; flex: 1; margin: 1em 0;">
      <img src="../../assets/examples/editor_agents/gcp/object_classification_generic.png" width="100%"/>
      <strong>Figure A:</strong> A generic label without any type annotations.
    </figure>
    <figure style="text-align: center; flex: 1; margin: 1em 0;">
      <img src="../../assets/examples/editor_agents/gcp/object_classification_filled.png" width="100%"/>
      <strong>Figure B:</strong> A nested label with all details filled for the predicted class.
    </figure>
</div>

**The FastAPI agent**

??? "The full code for `main.py`"
    <!--codeinclude-->
    [main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/object_classification.py) linenums:1
    <!--/codeinclude-->

Let's walk through the key components.

First, we setup the FastAPI app and CORS middleware:

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/object_classification.py) lines:1-22
<!--/codeinclude-->

> Then we setup the client, project, and extract the generic ontology object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we setup the client, Project, and extract the generic Ontology object:
```

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/object_classification.py) lines:24-30
<!--/codeinclude-->

We create the data model and system prompt for Claude:

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/object_classification.py) lines:32-43
<!--/codeinclude-->

Finally, we define our object classification endpoint:

<!--codeinclude-->
[main.py](../../code_examples/fastapi/object_classification.py) lines:46-84
<!--/codeinclude-->

The endpoint:

1. Receives frame data via FastAPI's Form dependency
2. Gets the label row via `dep_label_row`
3. Gets object crops filtered to only include "generic" objects via `dep_object_crops`
4. For each crop:
   - Queries Claude with the cropped image
   - Parses the response into an object instance
   - Replaces the generic object with the classified one
5. Saves the changes to the label row

> **Testing the agent**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Testing the Agent
```

> **Step 1: run the FastAPI server**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**STEP 1: Run the FastAPI Server**  
```

> With the agent laid down, we can run it and test it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the agent set up, we can run it and test it. 
```

In your current terminal, run:

```shell
fastapi dev agent.py --port 8080
```

> This will run the FastAPI server in development mode with auto-reload enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This runs the FastAPI server in development mode with auto-reload enabled.
```

**Step 2: annotate some generic objects**

> Open your project within [the Encord platform](https://app.encord.com/projects){ target="_blank", rel="noopener noreferrer" } in your browser and try annotating an image with some generic objects. Once you've done that, copy the URL from your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your Project in [the Encord platform](https://app.encord.com/projects){ target="_blank", rel="noopener noreferrer" } in your browser and try annotating an image with some generic objects. Once you have done that, copy the URL from your browser.
```

!!! hint
    The url should have roughly this format: `"https://app.encord.com/label_editor/{project_hash}/{data_hash}/{frame}"`.

**Step 3: trigger the agent**

In another shell operating from the same working directory, source your virtual environment and test the agent:

```shell
source venv/bin/activate
encord-agents test local object_classification '<your_url>'
```

> If the test is successful, you should be able to refresh your browser and see the generic objects replaced with properly classified objects including all their nested attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the test is successful, you are able to refresh your browser and see the generic objects replaced with properly classified objects including all their nested attributes.
```
